#Continuous time signals

x(t) -> SYS -> y(t)

A signal that has a continuous input and a continuous output is called a continuous time *ct* syste,,. Such a system takes a continuous time *ct* signal as input. 
For a photo, we have two spatial coordinates x and y and in this case, the brightness of each pixel can be taken as a *continuous space* signal. The signal generated by
vocal chord is continuous time signal. A continuous vector signal is a signal that is continuous which respect to all spatial coordinates. An ECG signal is an example. 
Leads can be attached to any part, such as chest, leg. $x_i$(t) is a time dependent signal with respect to $x_i$. 

We can have a DT system, a **discrete time** system, of the form

x(\[n\]) -> SYS -> y(\[n\])

These signals take only *discrete* n values, which is why we use the notation \[n\]. It is to be noted that in between 0 and 1, the signal is **undefined**, not zero. These 
are used in multiple situations, a continuous time signal is taken, converted to discrete time signal, and then outputted as a continuous time signal. The values taken by
a stock exchange for example is a discrete time signal. 

[Note] : It depends on the storage used whether a continuous time or discrete time signal is more favoured.

### Classification of signals

1. Periodic / Aperiodic
      + Saw wave is an example of periodic functions.
3. Discrete time (DT) / Continuous time (CT)
4. Even / Odd / Neither. 
      + Even ($t^2, cos(t)$ etc.)  $\frac{f(x) + f(-x)}{2}$
      + Odd $\dfrac{f(x) - f(-x)}{2}
      + Neither

Signals can be written as functions. 

### Size of signals

Power of the signal is the measure of it's size. Let's take an example. Take a source voltage and a capacitor system. Once we write the equations, we see that we have a 
relationship between $V_s$ and $V_c$. We are interested in finding the energy of a signal over infinite time. Note that when the power is finite in the infinite interval, the 
energy is infinite, and when the energy is finite, the average power is zero. For discrete time signals, instead of taking *integrals*, we take the *summation*. 

### Transformation of independent variables

Consider the transformation x(t) -> x($\alpha$t + $\beta$). Consider the case where $\alpha$ is 1. If beta is positive, we call it *time advancement* and if beta is negative, we call it *time delay*. Now, consider the case where $\alpha$ is negative. If we take alpha to be -1, we get the signal to be *reflected* about the y axis. 
Now, consider the case where $\alpha$ < 1. This corresponds to *stretching* the signal. If $\alpha$ > 1. This corresponds to *compressing* the signal. Example is fast-fowarding a video.  




